# node-mqlight (alpha)

MQ Light is designed to allow applications to exchange discrete pieces of
information in the form of messages. This might sound a lot like TCP/IP
networking, and MQ Light does use TCP/IP under the covers, but MQ Light takes
away much of the complexity and provides a higher level set of abstractions to
build your applications with.

This Node.js module provides the high-level API by which you can interact 
with the MQ Light runtime.

Current Features:

* Send and receive arbitrary String and JSON objects between Node.js
  applications using an at-most-once quality of service.
* Includes samples to demonstrate API usage.

More functionality coming soon.

## Getting Started

Install it in node.js:

```
npm install https://ibm.biz/node-mqlight
```

```javascript
var mqlight = require('mqlight');
```

Then create some clients to send and receive messages:

```javascript
var client = mqlight.createClient({
  clientId: 'client-id1'
});

client.connect();

var topic = "public";
client.on('connected', function() {
  client.send(topic, "Hello World!");
});

var client = mqlight.createClient({
  clientId: 'client-id2'
});

client.connect();

var address = "public";
client.on('connected', function() {
  var destination = client.subscribe(address);
  destination.on('message', function(msg) {
    console.log(msg);
  });
});
```

## API

### mqlight.createClient([`options`])

Creates an MQ Light client instance.

* `options`, (Object)  options for the client. Properties include:

  *  **service**, (String) (required), the URL for the service to connect to.
  *  **id** (String, default: AUTO_[0-9a-f]{7}), a unique identifier for
     this client.
  *  **user** (String) (optional) user name for authentication
  *  **password** (String) (optional) password for authentication

Returns `Client` object representing the client instance.

### mqlight.Client.connect([`callback`])
Connects the MQ Light client instance to the service.
* `callback` - (Function) (optional) callback to be notified of errors &
  completion

### mqlight.Client.send(`topic`, `message` [, `options` [, `callback`]])

Sends the given MQ Light message object to its address. String and Buffer
messages will be sent and received as-is. Any other Object will be converted to
JSON before sending and automatically parsed back into the same Object type
when received.

* `topic` - (String) the topic to which the message will be sent.
* `message` - (String | Buffer | Object) the message body to be sent
* `options` - (Object) (optional) map of additional options for the send.
* `callback` - (Function) (optional) callback to be notified of errors &
  completion

### mqlight.Client.subscribe(`pattern` [, `share` [,`options` [, `callback`]]])

Create a `subscription` and associates it with a `pattern`.

The `pattern` is matched against the `address` attribute of messages sent to
the IBM MQ Light messaging service to determine whether a particular message
will be delivered to a particular `Destination`.

* `pattern` - (String) used to match against the `address` attribute of
  messages to determine if a copy of the message should be received.
* `share` - (String) (optional) name for creating or joining a shared
  subscription for which messages are anycast between connected subscribers. If
 omitted defaults to unshared (e.g. private).
* `options` - (Object) (optional) map of additional options for the destination.
* `callback` - (Function) callback to be notified of errors & completion.

Returns the `Client` object that the subscribe was called on which will emit 
`message` events on arrival.

### mqlight.Client.getId()

Returns the identifier associated with the client. This will either be what
was passed in on the `Client.createClient` call or an autogenerated id.

### mqlight.Client.getService()

Returns the URL of the service to which the client is currently connected
to, or undefined if not connected.

### mqlight.Client.getState()

Returns the current state of the client, which will be one of:
'connected', 'connecting', 'disconnected' or 'disconnecting'.

### mqlight.Client.disconnect([callback])

Disconnects this Client from the messaging server and frees the system
resources that it uses. Calling this method also implicitly closes any
subscriptions that have been created using the client's
`Client.subscribe` method.

## Samples

To run the samples, install the module via npm and navigate to the
`mqlight/samples/` folder.

Usage:

Receiver Example:

```
Usage: recv.js [options] <address>
                          address: amqp://<domain>/<name>
                          (default amqp://localhost/public)

Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
```

Sender Example:

```
Usage: send.js [options] <msg_1> ... <msg_n>

Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -a ADDRESS, --address=ADDRESS
                        address: amqp://<domain>/<name>
                        (default amqp://localhost/public)
  -d NUM, --delay=NUM   add a NUM seconds time delay between each request
```

## Release notes

### 0.1.0

* Initial alpha release
* Support for sending and receiving 'at-most-once' messages.

